---
play_number: 2
title: Default to being good and inclusive
---

Being good isn't a difficult concept to comprehend in most of our lives. However, when it comes to business, many people equate 'good' with 'charity'. In fact, a business that focuses on being 'good' and creating positive impact is often able to maintain a high level of integrity with clients and staff, reducing client attrition and improving staff retention. In many cases, being 'good' equates to being 'honest' and 'trustworthy, and can be a significant competitive advantage and unique value proposition for customers, partners and staff.

### Checklist
1. For each business leader, outline your intrinsic values (what is motivating you in your life)
2. Identify one (or more) way you can improve the lives of the people in your neighborhood or community outside of your product or service
3. Create a diverse and inclusive workforce
4. Understand your business' impact
5. Track your business' impact
6. Keep your business' impact on the 'good' side of impact, making things better
7. Remain financially sustainable while creating impact

### Key Questions
- Are we using culturally responsive market analysis methods?
- Use culturally responsive talent attraction and retention methods to find and keep the best and brightest?
- How is our business affecting the lives of our staff, our customers, our partners and suppliers?
- How could our business affect the lives of people in our community?
- How are our business practices affecting the natural world locally, globally?
- How are we "checking ourselves", making sure that we are staying connected and responsive to the people and world around us?
- how are we evaluating the capacity and capability of your business to create impact?


