---
play_number: 3
title: Thoroughly understand the problem and your stakeholders
---

In your business, you have many stakeholders: customers, partners, suppliers, staff and all of the people connected to those individuals. How well we understand the people the are critical for our business' success, and the factors that affect their lives can be a critical factor in a business identifying opportunities for explosive growth and avoiding 'mental barriers' that can cause a business to implode. Then again, sometimes when the market says 'no', a product or service can come along and re-shape what people need.  The trick is to understand your stakeholders well enough to make that call.


### Checklist
1. Complete Customer Personas
2. Complete a Stakeholder Map for your Customer Personas
3. If conducting early studies or focus groups, use the HCD Toolkit
4. Talk to at least 10 potential or existing customers (Steve Blank Method)

### Key Questions
- What primary tasks is customer trying to accomplish?
- Is the language we use plain and universal to our customers?
- Have we talked with actual customers about the problem?
- How much do we understand the actual people who will be using our product?
- What affects our customer's lives? 
- Who our the biggest influencers on our customer's work and personal lives? 
- Are we hearing what our customers are telling us, even if they are telling us our idea isn't right?
- Are we staying aware of what people aren't telling us, exploring how we can improve even further?



