---
play_number: 4
title: Know your stakeholders in and out
---

Sometimes, even when the market says 'no', a product or service can come along and re-shape what people need. 

Use the business model canvas

Steve Blank method
Outline your initial business hypothesis and model

### Checklist
1. Ship a functioning “minimum viable product” (MVP) that solves a core user need as soon as possible, no longer than three months from the beginning of the project, using a “beta” or “test” period if needed
2. Run usability tests frequently to see how well the service works and identify improvements that should be made
3. Ensure the individuals building the service communicate closely using techniques such as launch meetings, war rooms, daily standups, and team chat tools
4. Keep delivery teams small and focused; limit organizational layers that separate these teams from the business owners
5. Release features and improvements multiple times each month
6. Create a prioritized list of features and bugs, also known as the “feature backlog” and “bug backlog”
7. Use a source code version control system
8. Give the entire project team access to the issue tracker and version control system
9. Use code reviews to ensure quality


### Key Questions



Take the 'mystery' out of entreprenership by treating all new ideas as an experiment
---

Going down the path of starting, adjusting, persevering or pivoting a business can waste a lot of time and money if we aren't careful. As entrepreneurs, we are going to hear a lot of ideas thrown our way and we need to make sure we stay focused, but open to necessary change. A good mantra to follow is: "Start like a good scientist, then build like an engineer." A good scientist always starts off with hypothesis that they are essentially trying to break. They know how to measure success, how to remain ethical and when they should stop the experiment. A good engineer can solve any problem, but always solves for the immediate problem with an eye toward the future. The moment we start thinking our idea "has to happen", we are at risk of wasting significant time or money instead of actively learning and holding no idea sacred.


### Checklist
1. Version tracking
2. Identify an individual to be responsible for the experiment
3. Identify your team and their roles
4. Develop metrics that will measure how well the service is meeting user needs at each step of the service
5. Never take any idea off the table, unless it conflicts with our ethics, morals or core values


### Key Questions
- Are we really?
- Where are user pain points in the current way people accomplish the task?
- Where does this specific project fit into the larger way people currently obtain the service being offered?
- What metrics will best indicate how well the service is working for its users?