---
play_number: 5
title: Know your opportunity in and out
---

<<<<<<< HEAD
Entrepreneurship is largely about managing your relationship to risk. Every step an entrepreneur takes in growing their business is a risk, and the only way you can reduce some of that risk is by having a solid understanding of your market and your customers. Outside of personal development, market knowledge and validation is probably the single greatest factor for a new business to succeed. 
=======
To improve our chances of success when contracting out development work, we need to work with experienced budgeting and contracting officers. In cases where we use third parties to help build a service, a well-defined contract can facilitate good development practices like conducting a research and prototyping phase, refining product requirements as the service is built, evaluating open source alternatives, ensuring frequent delivery milestones, and allowing the flexibility to purchase cloud computing resources.

[The TechFAR Handbook](https://techfarhub.cio.gov/handbook/) provides a detailed explanation of the flexibilities in the Federal Acquisition Regulation (FAR) that can help agencies implement this play.
>>>>>>> usds/gh-pages

### Checklist
1. Complete a Business Model Canvas
2. Have high-level market numbers (including overall size, number of customers, geographic area, average dollar per transaction, average time to complete each transaction)
3. Complete a Lean Pitch Outline
4. Complete Customer Validation Interviews for each Customer Segment
5. Complete a Buyer Profile for each Customer Segment
6. Complete a projected Sales Pipeline
7. If conducting early studies or focus groups, use the HCD Toolkit
8. Think through accessibility of your customers to solutions, thinking through access barriers (financial, phsyical, emotional, intellectual)
9. Use language that is familiar to the user and easy to understand
10. Always treat each idea as a hypothesis that must be tested

### Key Questions
- What primary tasks is customer trying to accomplish?
- Is the language as plain and universal as possible?
- Have we talked with actual customers about this product?
- Do we understand our customers, their day-to-day and what problems they face that we can solve?
- Who actually makes the decision to buy our product/service, and who influences them?
- Are we using the words that our customers would use, or words comfortable to us?
- What are our projected sales for the next 12-36 months?
- Are we hearing what our customers are telling us, even if they are telling us our idea isn't right?
- Are we open to pivoting to the opportunities we are hearing?