---
play_number: 7
title: Default to lean, learning and human-centered
---

You are going to fail many times along the way to success. You can't pivot a truth, and not being able to adjust can waste a lot of time and money. So treat all of your ideas as hypothesis, and approach them as both a scientist and an enginner. 

As an entrepreneur, you must become the scientist and engineer for your business, driven changes based on input from stakeholders, measuring those changes and iterating in the shortest possible time. The best way to maintain and grow your business is to find the path to success, and usually the fastest way to find that is to find all the paths to failure as quickly and inexpensively as possible. Doing that will not only help get you to the right path, it will help you avoid product/service decisions (and outside advice) that will take you off course down the road.

A good mantra to follow is: "Start like a human-centered scientist, build like a lean engineer, and learn like an analyst."

### Checklist
1. Start with a hypothesis, trusting your experience
2. Validate your hypothesis in the simplest way
3. Always strive for a result that is 'good enough'
4. Only compromise your value proposition if an adjustment or pivot is indicated
5. Never compromise your Core Values
6. Find the paths to failure first
7. Always be willing to be wrong

### Key Questions
- Are we allowing our customers to provide us with useful feedback before, during and after the sale?
- How can we shorten our learning cycle (time to go from idea to product)?
- How often are we checking in with our current and previous clients?
- Are we focused on finding where we are wrong, or only proving that we are right?
- How are we tracking client interactions and performance with our product/service?
- Are we taking opportunities at every Channel to better understand how we can help our customers, partners, suppliers or staff?