---
play_number: 8
title: Select the right team
---

Selecting the right people to work with is another crucial decision for entrepreneurs. At any stage of your business' development, the person(s) you choose and how you interact with them can keep you moving forward or can slow you down. When bringing people in as partners or employees, it's important to know what and who you need, then vet people out. When using a 3rd party vendor, it is important to perform some due diligence on their history, service or product. For both situations, how you communicate will determine how well your team performs.
                     
### Checklist
1. Owners(s) of the team have 2+ years experience producing results in your market 
2. Owners have 2+ years experience collaborating together
3. Concrete, attainable goals and objectives have been clearly defined
4. All team members have a shared vision
5. All team members undergo a vetting process


### Key Questions
- Does each party have the capacity for strategic thinking?
- Do we have a skilled convener/organizer to coordinate our collaboration?
- Do we have sufficient funds to engage this person/organization?
- Do we have open and frequent communication?
- Do we have formal and informal communication links?
- Do we both share a stake in the process and the outcome?
- Do we both share in decision-making?
- Are we flexible as a team?
- Do we have clearly developed roles and policy guidelines?
- Do we both feel this alliance is in our self-interests?
- Do we both have the ability to compromise?