---
play_number: 10
title: Stay focused on the Minimum Viable Effort (MVE)
---

Taking an experience to 'good enough' requires doing the minimum required amount of work to deliver enough value that a customer pays for what you are offering. Each decision we make is another opportunity to adjust or pivot our product. If we are learning, iterating and improving. our product or service will evolve to 'great' naturally. If we try to evolve our product/service to 'great' too quickly, we run the risk of wasting significant time and money on those efforts. The faster we iterate, learn and get to the next 'good enough' point, the faster we can grow.

### Checklist
1. Acquire your first customer
2. Acquire your first 5 customers
3. Acquire your first 10 customers
4. Monitor client interactions with your product/service
5. Regularly conduct feedback 'post mortem' with client work
6. Determine how you can deliver a functional product or service using the "minimum viable effort" (MVE) that solves a core customer need as soon as possible, ideally no longer than three months from the beginning of the project, using a "pilot", “beta” or “test” period if needed
7. Get feedback on your product/service frequently to see how well the service works and identify improvements that should be made
8. Create a prioritized list of improvements and changes, also known as the “backlog”

### Key Questions
- Have we defined our milestones and how we will evaluate our performance and value delivery?
- Are we gathering information before we make a change?