---
play_number: 13
title: Before adjusting or pivoting, conduct market research
---

As an entrepreneur, you may be familiar with the phrase "oh, I've got a great idea for you" or "you know what you SHOULD be doing...". These inputs, often from peers, friends, collaborators and colleagues are well intentioned, but can easily distract us from our core mission of delivering value. 

Outside of taking risks, staying focused is the most difficult skill all entrepreneurs must master in order to effectively know where and how to apply their resources. To help avoid adjusting or pivoting on any part of your business, put new ideas into your rythmic checkin, stay focus on devliering value and only pivot or adjust if you can validate the change. While there are exceptions to this rule, pivoting too often and too early is often worse than persevering, failing and learning.

### Checklist
1. Incorporate suggested changes to your model in your rythmic checkins
2. Treat all changes or pivots as new hypothesis and validate them with stakeholders
3. Discuss pivots and adjustments to your business model with your trusted advisors
4. Allow your customers to provide ongoing feedback to inform when you should pviot or adjust when you might not be aware you should

### Key Questions
- Does the suggested change require an adjustment or pivot to our model?
- Do we need to change right now?
- Have we validated our new model or suggested change with our stakeholders?
- Are we reacting to our fear or overcoming it?